Dreiländer Hack blog article (#122)
osrd-project/osrd-website: content/blog/news/2023/dreilander-hack/index.en.md

title: "OSRD at Dreiländer Hack in Wien"
linkTitle: "OSRD at Dreiländer Hack in Wien"
date: 2023-07-19
---

## Dreiländer hack, the annual meeting of German-speaking railway companies... but not only!
On 29 and 30 June, the ["Dreiländer hack"](https://bcc.oebb.at/de/das-leisten-wir/innovationen/dreilaenderhack) (the hackathon of the three countries) was held in Wien (Austria). Organised by DB (Germany), ÖBB (Austria) and SBB (Switzerland), this is an annual event dedicated to collaboration on shared railway-related challenges. 

We were delighted to be invited to take part thanks to the [OpenRail Foundation](https://openrailfoundation.org/), and this year's theme being "Open Railways", it would have been hard to refuse! 

## 24 hours to work together on a topic of common interest
The 150 participants were divided into 16 working groups on a wide variety of topics such as: 
* Imagining a simple interface for ordering train paths (an important subject for the future of OSRD); 
* Offering passenger information adapted to different disabilities; 
* Optimising the prioritisation of trains at junctions according to the number of passengers on board and on the platform (Motis project); 

> * Automatically identify energy-consuming trains in storage; 
> * Calculate forecast maintenance dates from a historical database for each train component; 
> * Detect speed measurement and GPS positioning errors on track inspection trains; 
> * Optimise maintenance work to limit lost capacity; 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Automatically identifying energy-consuming trains in storage; 
* Calculating forecast maintenance dates from a historical database for each train component; 
* Detecting speed measurement and GPS positioning errors on track inspection trains; 
* Optimizing maintenance work to limit lost capacity; 
```
For consistency with the other point (either that or the other way around)

* Facilitating passenger information with a GPT chatbot; 

> * Designing an easy-to-use display and controlticketing interface for night trains across Europe.

Reviewer: I assume there's a typo on `controlticketing`

---
title: "OSRD at Dreiländer Hack in Wien"
linkTitle: "OSRD at Dreiländer Hack in Wien"
date: 2023-07-19
---

## Dreiländer hack, the annual meeting of German-speaking railway companies... but not only!

On 29 and 30 June, the ["Dreiländer hack"](https://bcc.oebb.at/de/das-leisten-wir/innovationen/dreilaenderhack) (the hackathon of the three countries) was held in Wien (Austria). Organised by DB (Germany), ÖBB (Austria) and SBB (Switzerland), this is an annual event dedicated to collaboration on shared railway-related challenges.

We were delighted to be invited to take part thanks to the [OpenRail Foundation](https://openrailfoundation.org/), and this year's theme being "Open Railways", it would have been hard to refuse!

## 24 hours to work together on a topic of common interest

The 150 participants were divided into 16 working groups on a wide variety of topics such as:

* Imagining a simple interface for ordering train paths (an important subject for the future of OSRD);
* Offering passenger information adapted to different disabilities;

> * Optimising the prioritisation of trains at junctions according to the number of passengers on board and on the platform (Motis project);

Author: ```suggestion
* Optimizing the prioritisation of trains at junctions according to the number of passengers on board and on the platform (Motis project);
```
